Cloud SaaS team page revamp (#934)
sourcegraph/handbook: content/engineering/cloud/saas/index.md

# Cloud Software-as-a-Service Team

> The Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) Team is responsible for the **service management** part of the Sourchegraph cloud product. The team provides both **customer-facing** and **internal capabilities that enable our customers to use Sourcegraph cloud product as a service**.

Reviewer: Should the highlight be shorter (say, just internal) to contrast with customer-facing?

Author: it might better sense to highlight the `and` to as I wanted to keep this whole sentence as TL;DR;

> The Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) Team is responsible for the **service management** part of the Sourchegraph cloud product. The team provides both **customer-facing** and **internal capabilities that enable our customers to use Sourcegraph cloud product as a service**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) Team is responsible for the **service management** part of the Sourcegraph Cloud product. The team provides both **customer-facing** and **internal capabilities that enable our customers to use the Sourcegraph Cloud product as a service**.
```

## Goals and Roadmap

Our detailed Sourcegraph Cloud roadmap is currently internal-only until our public announcement later this year. Our Q4 OKRs are publicly available [here](../index.md#okrs-fy22q4).

Beyond Q4, our goals over the next 12-24 months include:

- Provide a delightful self-service onboarding and self-service payments capabilities for new developers and new teams to enable a true Software-as-a-Service experience for customers who prefer it
- Provide in-depth administration capabilities to unlock adoption of Sourcegraph Cloud by large enterprises
- Enable full multi-tenancy for Sourcegraph, both cloud and on-prem, providing additional security for customers who prefer it
- Create a culture that focuses on launching and landing features by verifying user love of each new feature we release

## Areas of Ownership

Service management is a broad area of ownership. To provide more clarity into what its stands for, we will break this down based on product domains. We will also provide a list of features and services from a technical engineering ownership perspective.

### Product domains

#### Administration experience and teams management

> Capabilities that provide customers with transparency and access control to how Sourcegraph cloud is used within their organizations. This means changing the Sourcegraph product from a single to multi-tenant architecture that will enable multiple customers to operate on a single shared cloud instance securely. On the other side, it’s all about providing functionalities to support organizations collaborating on the cloud. This includes but is not limited to team management, role-based access control, and other features targeted towards admins on our customer’s side.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Capabilities that provide customers with transparency and access control to how Sourcegraph Cloud is used within their organizations. This means changing the Sourcegraph product from a single to multi-tenant architecture that will enable multiple customers to operate on a single shared cloud instance securely. On the other side, it’s all about providing functionalities to support organizations collaborating on the cloud. This includes but is not limited to team management, role-based access control, and other features targeted towards admins on our customer’s side.
```

## Partner Teams

The Cloud SaaS team works alongside several other teams within the Cloud organization at Sourcegraph. You can find more information about their teams and goals on the respective pages:

- [Cloud Growth](../growth)
- [Cloud DevOps](../devops)
- [Extensibility](../extensibility)
- [Security](../security)

## News and updates

- [2021.10.13 monthly update](https://groups.google.com/a/sourcegraph.com/g/engineering-team-status/c/3p0Pj2-RfVY?hl=en)

## How we work

### How to contact the team and ask for help

- For cloud users with urgent help requests reach out to our support team at [support@sourcegraph.com](mailto:support@sourcegraph.com).
- For emergencies and incidents, alert the team using Slack command `/genie alert [message] for Cloud SaaS Team`.
- For internal Sourcegraph teammates, join us in [#cloud-saas](https://sourcegraph.slack.com/archives/cloud-saas) to ask questions or request help from our team.
- For cloud users with feature requests, please reach out to our product manager, Ryan, at [ryphil@sourcegraph.com](mailto:ryphil@sourcegraph.com) and include `Cloud Feature Request:` in your subject line.

### Planning, execution, and issue tracking

> The Cloud SaaS team is planning work based on our [long-term roadmap](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1vTEWyiNQLhJYxo99HkgOhtdNyYfSlyyRNuhEnIySMMc/edit#gid=0) and setting [quarterly goals](#goals-and-roadmap). During the quarter, we are following a flavor of the SCRUM process with biweekly sprints. Our cycle starts every second Tuesday with a retrospective, sprint review, and planning meetings. We set goals for each sprint and focus team efforts during the iteration on achieving these goals rather than closing a number of issues. It’s the outcomes and delivered customer value, not the output, that matters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Cloud SaaS team plans work based on our [long-term roadmap](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1vTEWyiNQLhJYxo99HkgOhtdNyYfSlyyRNuhEnIySMMc/edit#gid=0) and setting [quarterly goals](#goals-and-roadmap). During the quarter, we follow a flavor of the SCRUM process with biweekly sprints. Our cycle starts every second Tuesday with a retrospective, sprint review, and planning meetings. We set goals for each sprint and focus team efforts during the iteration on achieving these goals rather than closing a number of issues. It’s the outcomes and delivered customer value, not the output, that matters.
```

We are using [Jira](https://www.atlassian.com/software/jira) as our project tracking tool. While you will need access to Sourcegraph Atlassian account to view the [Cloud SaaS project](https://sourcegraph.atlassian.net/jira/software/c/projects/CLOUD/boards/11/backlog?selectedIssue=CLOUD-73&issueLimit=100) the [list view of all the issues](https://sourcegraph.atlassian.net/jira/software/c/projects/CLOUD/issues/) within this project is publicly available.

> #### How do we use Jira

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### How we use Jira
```

#### User research calendar

We use a shared [Sourcegraph Cloud Research calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0?cid=Y185ZG9oYmJxOW5mYW50cDVva2t1dHBpMnJha0Bncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t) to schedule and surface research activities. When new research sessions are scheduled, they will be automatically duplicated to the Cloud SaaS team calendar, and the Cloud SaaS team invited as attendees (note that attendance is always optional, but we haven’t found a way to reflect this in the automatic event).

### Working agreements

#### Decision log

[This document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10ylYWDpDABAlaF-dPi5_hgjNkTmakMeivxxsIz2Q3uQ/edit?usp=sharing) contains all important decisions and agreements done within the Cloud SaaS team in chronological order so that they can be tracked over time. Consider this a single source of truth for all the decisions within the team. If you are leading the decision-making process, please update the documents with the details about the decision made. If appropriate, especially for team working agreement, please update the handbook as well.

#### Team internal communication

TBD

#### Sprint reviews

> Each sprint is followed by a short sprint review meeting on Google Meet. During this meeting, we review the state of sprint goals, demo the features we delivered and discuss topics related to the sprint's scope. We also review the state of our retrospective actions items. This is an open meeting. Our stakeholders and members of the other team at Sourcegraph are always welcome to attend. Each review has a designated facilitator, usually an engineer from the Cloud SaaS team, responsible for filling in the [agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14hxy2WrcOpKwpRKqkJ0bvsDc4vRyTolmgBsoOoj2jko/edit) and facilitating the meeting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each sprint is followed by a short sprint review meeting on Google Meet. During this meeting, we review the state of sprint goals, demo the features we delivered and discuss topics related to the sprint's scope. We also review the state of our retrospective actions items. This is an open meeting. Our stakeholders and members of other teams at Sourcegraph are always welcome to attend. Each review has a designated facilitator, usually an engineer from the Cloud SaaS team, responsible for filling in the [agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14hxy2WrcOpKwpRKqkJ0bvsDc4vRyTolmgBsoOoj2jko/edit) and facilitating the meeting.
```

#### Groomings

To support the globally distributed nature of our team, we are doing our groomings in an asynchronous format. [Agile Poker Jira addon](https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/700473/agile-poker-for-jira-planning-estimation?tab=overview&hosting=cloud) is our tool of choice, and we are running our groomings session based on the following schedule:

- Each Monday, the new async grooming session should be created within [Agile Poker app](https://sourcegraph.atlassian.net/projects/CLOUD?selectedItem=com.atlassian.plugins.atlassian-connect-plugin:com.spartez.jira.plugins.jiraplanningpoker__poker-project-page#!/board/11/sessions-management?type=async)
- Every task added to the session should have an owner assigned. The task assignee is responsible for breaking the tasks into meaningful subtasks if applicable and working on description and acceptance criteria to meet the expectations of our DoR. This should be done between Monday and Wednesday.

> - Thursday and Friday are reserved for the whole team async estimation based on the Agile Poker session settings. We are using Fibonacci numbers and treating one story point as one dev of work for a single engineer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Thursday and Friday are reserved for the whole team async estimation based on the Agile Poker session settings. We are using Fibonacci numbers and treating one story point as one day of work for a single engineer
```

#### Team calendar

All team events and reminders should be added to the [team calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=c_n5p67no2g2tprhq3g0v7km7pv8%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe%2FWarsaw). This will allow us to keep all team events and reminders in a single place, increasing visibility for people within and outside of the team.

- Please add `cloud-saas-team@sourcegraph.com` group to participants for all events you expect people to join/participate in. This will automatically block time on your peers’ calendars. Also, if they can’t join, they can decline the event providing transparency about their ability to participate.
- For reminders, you don’t need to add participants

#### Making pull requests and asking for code reviews

TBD

#### Definition of done (DoD)

TBD

#### Definition of ready (DoR)

TBD

#### On-call

TBD

## Product and technical documentation

TBD

## Playbooks and procedures

- [Getting a list of cloud users](./playbooks/getting-a-list-of-cloud-users.md)

## Hiring and onboarding

### Hiring

> This section contains links to Core App specific interview types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section contains links to Cloud SaaS specific interview types.
```
